README.md, before:

# Shruti-1
New housing for the Shruti-1 


## Design

In 2010 I assembled the Shruti-1 (Without H), the version before the well-known Shruthi-1 (With the H).

The 2 pcb were not yet optimized to be assembled on top of each other.

At the time, I put it in a suitcase along with a broken Behringer delay pedal and a Fuzz "harmonic percolator" pedal circuit.

I put in jack connectors to make them "modular"...

But I realized that I wasn't going to make it with my suitcases, as they take up a lot of space, so the Eurorack saved me ^^.


<img src='Pictures/Shruti-1_first_work.jpg' width='200px'/>


<img src='Pictures/Shruti-1_Final.jpg' width='200px'/>


## 2024 Version

Now we need to make it autonomous.

Make him his own box.

Here's what we've got: the motherboard, the controller board, the screen and 2 potentiometers, one for output volume control (Audio Out 100k Log) and the other for input volume (Audio In 10k Lin).

<img src='Pictures/Shruti-1_V2024.jpg' width='200px'/>

We're measuring the overall dimensions of the pcb, I've added a little width (3 Cm) to put the 2 potentiometers to the left of the screen.

<img src='Pictures/Shruti-1_V2024_Mesures.jpg' width='200px'/>

### Shruti new box

To create the box, there's a great site : https://www.makercase.com/

It's easy to use and lets you create a custom box. Once you've finished entering the width, height and depth values, you can download the plans in either .svg or .dxf format.

<img src='Pictures/Shruti-1_Makercase.png' width='200px'/>


### Shruti new box design

I use Inkscape to add the holes, the pictures and all the text.

### LaserCut the box

### Assembly the box

### Play with

Commit message:

add box design, 3d files and improve text

README.md, after:

# Shruti-1

New housing for the Shruti-1 


## Design

In 2010 I assembled the Shruti-1 (Without H), because it's the platypus controlled, the version before the well-known Shruthi-1 (With the H, all infos here : https://pichenettes.github.io/mutable-instruments-diy-archive/shruthi/build/).

<img src='Pictures/Shruti-1_Platypus.jpg' width='200px'/>

The 2 pcb were not yet optimized to be assembled on top of each other.

At the time, I put it in a suitcase along with a broken Behringer delay pedal and a Fuzz "harmonic percolator" pedal circuit.

I put in jack connectors to make them "modular"...

But I realized that I wasn't going to make it with my suitcases, as they take up a lot of space, so the Eurorack saved me ^^.


<img src='Pictures/Shruti-1_first_work.jpg' width='200px'/>


<img src='Pictures/Shruti-1_Final.jpg' width='200px'/>


## 2024 Version

Now we need to make it autonomous.

Make him his own box.

Here's what we've got: the motherboard, the controller board, the screen and 2 potentiometers, one for output volume control (Audio Out 100k Log) and the other for input volume (Audio In 10k Lin).

<img src='Pictures/Shruti-1_V2024.jpg' width='200px'/>

We're measuring the overall dimensions of the pcb, I've added a little width (3 Cm) to put the 2 potentiometers to the left of the screen.

<img src='Pictures/Shruti-1_V2024_Mesures.jpg' width='200px'/>

### Shruti new box

To create the box, there's a great site : https://www.makercase.com/

It's easy to use and lets you create a custom box. Once you've finished entering the width, height and depth values, you can download the plans in either .svg or .dxf format.

<img src='Pictures/Shruti-1_Makercase.png' width='200px'/>


### Shruti new box design

I use Inkscape to add the holes, the pictures and all the text.

<img src='Pictures/Shruti-1_Platypus.png' width='200px'/>*

The files are available here :

Box/Shruti-1_Box V2.svg -> The file which could be modify with inkscape

Box/Shruti-1_Box V2.dxf -> The file vectorised for the laserCutter

### LaserCut and assembly the box

<img src='Shruti-1_Platypus_NewBox.jpg' width='200px'/>*

### Cap for the button

There are two differents cap :

Cap shruti_3.6.stl : Because the first button need a hole with 3.6mm side

Cap shruti_4.2.stl : Because i need to change a button on the shruti, and, the new reference for this button at mouser has a hole with 4.2mm side

In the 3D files folder you could find the freecad files if you want to modify them, and the stl files for the 3D printer

### Play with
